
== Concepts ==

A VARIABLE is any number, object, player, team, or timer value in the script. This includes:

   global.number[0]
   global.object[0]
   current_object
   current_object.number[0]

A PROPERTY is a member of a variable. Properties are "dead ends:" you cannot access nested 
variables or other properties through them (e.g. no global.player[0].biped.biped), though 
you can call member functions on them (e.g. global.player[0].biped.set_shape(...)).

An "abstract property" is a property whose getter or setter access is handled by opcodes 
under the hood. Abstract properties can only appear in assignment statements, and some 
abstract properties may only have a getter or only have a setter. (We basically only use 
abstract properties when there is an opcode to modify some value using an assignment 
operator, e.g. to facilitate syntax like "object.shields += 3").

An OPCODE is any condition or action that can exist in a script. This includes ordinary 
assignments to variables and comparisons of variables, as well as every function call that 
one can write in a script. Some opcodes are getters and setters for specific data fields on 
some type (e.g. an object's current shields); these use property syntax in script.

Notably, opcodes are also used as the means to nest triggers: all triggers are held in a 
flat list, with nested triggers flagged to be skipped during normal execution, and there 
exists an opcode that executes the trigger with a given index. For the sake of parsing and 
compiling we can mostly pretend that this opcode doesn't exist; our syntax allows for nested 
blocks and we just generate these opcodes as part of the compile process.

An OPCODE ARGUMENT is a parameter passed to an opcode. For assignments, this includes the 
destination, the operator, and the operand; for comparisons, this includes the left- and 
righthand sides and the operator; for function calls, this includes the context and all 
call arguments. In rare cases, a single "setter" opcode may use the property to set as 
another argument; this is the case with the Modify Grenades action, where the argument to 
specify the grenade type to modify is represented as a property name in script i.e. the 
following two statements use the same opcode with different arguments:

   global.player[0].frag_grenades   += 3
   global.player[0].plasma_grenades += 3

As you might expect, every opcode argument has a value (held in memory by an OpcodeArgValue 
instance) and a type (managed by OpcodeArgValue subclasses, and described by instances of 
OpcodeArgTypeinfo).

An ALIAS is a user-defined name for any variable, constant integer, or enumeration value. 
Examples of aliases include:

   alias current_hill = global.object[0]
   alias is_zombie    = player.number[0] -- e.g. global.player[0].is_zombie
   alias is_zombie    = global.number[0] -- does not conflict with player.is_zombie
   alias vehicle_type = warthog          -- value from the "object type" enum
   alias max_phases   = 3
   alias derivative   = player.is_zombie -- aliases can be defined in terms of older aliases

Aliases are block-scoped, so they do not affect any references outside of their containing 
block. Aliases are allowed to shadow each other, with aliases of inner blocks temporarily 
shadowing aliases of outer blocks, and later-defined aliases permanently shadowing earlier-
defined aliases in the same block. Aliases allow script authors to name variables in the 
limited pool of variables that Megalo offers, and their being block-scoped allows authors 
to give intelligible names to temporary/scratch variables based on what those temporary 
variables are being used for at the moment.

An alias that is not scoped to a type is an "absolute alias," while an alias that is scoped 
to a type is a "relative alias:"

   alias current_hill = global.object[0] -- absolute
   alias vehicle_type = warthog          -- absolute
   alias max_phases   = 3                -- absolute
   alias is_zombie    = player.number[0] -- relative

Absolute aliases will not conflict with, shadow, or be shadowed by relative aliases with 
the same name. Additionally, two relative aliases with the same name will not conflict with 
or shadow each other if they are relative to different types.



== What information do typeinfos provide? ==

The compiler only needs a very detailed understanding of the following types:

 - All variables
 - Script widgets

All of the other types only appear as script arguments inside of function calls, and the 
compiler doesn't need to know how to parse them: by the time we get to reading the arguments 
of a function call, we've already seen enough to identify the function being called: we can 
instantiate an Opcode with the appropriate function, instantiate its OpcodeArgValue objects, 
and then simply pass the text of each script argument to those objects to interpret as appro-
priate. The above listed types, however, can appear in the following contexts, which the 
compiler must handle itself:

 - Variables can appear on either side of an assignment or comparison statement; variables 
   can also be the context of a property being get or set.

 - Variables and widgets can be the context of a function call (i.e. context.func())

As such, the above two types need reasonably detailed typeinfos describing precisely what 
can be accessed and how; variable types, for example, need to indicate whether they can be 
accessed as static collections (e.g. player[0] to refer to the first player in the match) 
and if so, what the maximum index is.

(Script traits use the same index as variables and script widgets, but they only appear as 
arguments; we can't rely solely on argument parsing to deal with them, because we want it 
to be possible to alias them, so we should handle them the same way as widgets (see below). 
Argument parsing will have a few other hiccups; for example, Vector3s need to parse care-
fully so that you can use aliases of constant integers as coordinate values.)

Most other types only need to define basic information on their typeinfos:

 - The name of the type, for error reporting during argument parsing

 - Optionally a description of the type, in preparation for code editor tooltips and any 
   other "friendly" stuff we may want to offer

 - The factory function, so that the appropriate OpcodeArgValue class can be instantiated 
   generically.

 - For any types that contain enums, a list of the enum values; this is needed so that 
   the compiler can accept aliases of those values (e.g. alias vehicle_type = warthog).

So what information needs to exist for detailed typeinfos?

 - Is the type statically accessible by its typename? (Yes for players and teams; yes for 
   script widgets and script traits; no for everything else.) If so, what is the maximum          <-------- LOOK HERE FOR HOW TO IMPLEMENT SCRIPT WIDGETS AND TRAITS FOR THE COMPILER
   allowed index?

 - Is the type a variable? If so, can it contain nested variables?

 - What properties can the type have? For players, these are things like the owner team 
   or the score, to give a few examples.

    - Only variables can have properties.

    - Typeinfos don't need to specify properties whose existence is implied (and whose 
      behavior is entirely handled) by property getter and setter opcodes in the action 
      function list.

    - Each property has a name and a type. Some properties specify a scope indicator ID 
      for their parent variable, which is enough information to fully resolve a reference         <------- IN ADDITION TO THINGS LIKE object.spawn_sequence, THIS IS ALSO HOW WE'LL IMPLEMENT SCRIPT STATS
      (the scope indicator will specify whether the property is read-only, and whether it 
      can be indexed). The "biped" property on players is a notable exception: there are 
      four possible scope indicators that it can use, so that property must instead rely 
      on a functor.

       = TODO: VARIABLE SCOPE INDICATORS NEED TO ALL SPECIFY WHETHER THEY'RE READ-ONLY

       = TODO: PROPERTIES MUST BE ABLE TO SPECIFY FUNCTORS



== Are there any other things that the compiler needs defined for it? ==

Namespaces need to be defined -- specifically, the "global" and "game" namespaces, as 
well as an internal "unnamed" namespace used to hold values that are not in any namespace. 
Each namespace has a list of members as well as two flags: one to indicate whether the 
namespace can hold static collections (i.e. player[0]; the flag is set only for the 
unnamed namespace); and another to indicate whether the namespace can hold variables (set 
for the "global" namespace only).

Each namespace member can have:

 - The name of the member.

 - The type of the member.

 - A "which" value, for unnamed-namespace members like (no_team) or (current_object). 
   This value indicates which object, player, or team is being defined as a member. This 
   value is mutually exclusive with the scope ID.

 - A scope indicator ID, for things like (script_option[0]) in the unnamed namespace or 
   (game.round_timer) in the "game" namespace. This ID should match those used for the            <------- THIS IS HOW WE'LL IMPLEMENT SCRIPT OPTIONS, IN CONTRAST TO TRAITS AND WIDGETS
   appropriate variable type's VariableScopeIndicatorValues. This value is mutually 
   exclusive with the "which" value.

 - A "read only" flag, used to indicate whether members like (current_object) can have 
   their values assigned to.

    - This is only needed for "which" members. "Scope" members can rely on read-only 
      data provided by the VariableScopeIndicatorValue.

       = TODO: VARIABLE SCOPE INDICATORS NEED TO ALL SPECIFY WHETHER THEY'RE READ-ONLY

 - An "is none" flag, used to indicate that members like (no_object) represent the absence 
   of a value.

    - This is only needed for "which" members. "Scope" members cannot ever be none.



== How do we parse a statement (not including conditions)? ==

We parse a word and verify that it's not a keyword (if it's a keyword, we handle it). Then, 
we look for either an operator or an opening parentheses. If an opening parentheses is 
found, then the word must be the context (if any) and name of a function being called; at 
that point, we skip ahead to function call logic. If on the other hand an operator is found, 
then we must be inside of an assignment statement, and the previously found word must be a 
variable reference. We ensure that it's valid, and that it isn't a read-only value, and then 
we get the next word after the operator. We then look for an opening parentheses; if none is 
found, then we take the newly-found word and interpret it as a variable reference, and at that 
point, we're done: we can compile an ordinary assignment operator or a property setter opcode 
as appropriate.

If an opening parentheses is found, then we double-check that the operator found was "=", a 
vanilla assignment, because modify-and-assign operators like "+=" cannot be used on functions. 

Having found a function call, we separate out the context from the function name. If there 
isn't a context, then we search the opcode list for all non-member functions; if one is found, 
we skip ahead to the opcode-parsing logic. If no matches are found, we search for any user-
defined functions and check for a match. If a match is found, then we're done parsing the 
statement: user-defined functions cannot return values or have arguments, so if this function 
call is inside of an assignment or if any arguments are specified, then we emit an error. (If 
no match was found for the non-member function call, we emit an error.)

If there *was* a context to the call, then we parse that context as a variable reference both 
because it will be an argument to the compiled opcode and because we need to know its type in 
order to identify the opcode being invoked. Once the type is known, we search the opcode list 
for all member functions of that type; if one is found, we go to opcode-parsing logic. (If no 
match is found, then we emit an error.)

At this point, the parser is sitting at the "(" glyph, having identified the function being 
called, its context (if any), and the variable being assigned to (if any). We can now parse 
the function call arguments. We instantiate an Opcode and its OpcodeArgValues, and then for 
each script argument, we extract everything up to the next "," or ")" and pass it to the 
OpcodeArgValue::compile member function.

...Well, that's a simplification. See, there are cases where what is considered an "argument" 
internally does not line up with what is considered an "argument" in script, i.e. differences 
between "opcode arguments" and "script" arguments. Consider this call:

   global.object[0].set_shape(box, 1, 2, 3, 4)

That is a script function with a context and five arguments, but it's also an opcode with 
only two arguments: the object to modify, and a single "shape" argument consisting of a type 
and a number of dimensions that varies with the type. So how do we handle this?

Well, OpcodeArgValue::compile receives an index indicating how many times it's been called 
for the same opcode argument, and it can return any of theese four status codes: success; 
failure; I need another argument; I can receive another argument, but do not require one. So 
in our example above, the OpcodeArgValueShape instance would end up having its compile method 
called four times, with increasing indices starting at 0; each call would return the "I need 
another argument" value except for the last call, which would return "success." (The reason 
for the "I can receive another argument, but do not require one" status code is formatted 
string arguments, which consist of a format string followed by zero, one, or two tokens to 
insert.)

The function will fail to parse if:

 - Any OpcodeArgValue::compile call returns a failure code.

 - Any OpcodeArgValue::compile call demands another argument, but there are no script arguments.

 - We run out of script arguments before we've handled all opcode arguments.

 - An OpcodeArgValue::compile call returns a success code, but there are non-whitespace chars 
   remaining in the argument string.

 - There are still unhandled script arguments remaining after all opcode arguments have 
   successfully compiled.

There's another wrinkle: multiple opcode functions can share a context type and a name, such 
that they serve as overloads of each other. This is seen with the (send_incident) opcode, 
which can be invoked thusly:

   send_incident(incident_name, player, player)
   send_incident(incident_name, player, player, number)

The best way to handle these is simple trial-and-error: we attempt to parse all arguments 
using the first definition, and if that fails, then we rewind back to the opening "(" and 
try again using the second definition.



== How do we parse a variable reference? ==

We begin by splitting the variable reference into its constituent parts, at each "." glyph. 
Each part must have a name and can optionally have an index. Consider:

   global.player[0].number[1]

The first part has name "global" and no index. The second part has name "player" and index 
0. The third part has name "number" and index 1.

This procedure allows us to weed out the following syntax errors:

 - Any disallowed characters in the square brackets, such as "-" or ".".

 - Unterminated square brackets on the last part e.g. "name[0"

 - An empty set of brackets, e.g. "name[]"

 - Any glyph other than "." after the square brackets, e.g. "name[]name"

 - Multiple sets of square brackets, e.g. "name[1][2]"

 - Any name that is an integer, e.g. "123[4]" or "name[1].123[4]". Normal integer constants 
   e.g. "123" are checked for and handled before we begin splitting the reference into parts.

  - A mismatched closing bracket e.g. "name]"

Once we've split the variable reference into parts, we can process it as follows:

 - For any part: if the index consists of non-numeric text, then we need to check whether 
   it matches an absolute alias. If so: if that absolute alias is not a constant integer, 
   then throw a syntax error; otherwise, substitute in the value of the constant integer.

 - The first part must be either a namespace, a member in the unnamed namespace, or the 
   typename of a type that can be accessed as a static collection (i.e. player, team, or 
   script_widget).

    - If the first part is a namespace...

       - An index on the first part is a syntax error.
       - The second part must be a member of that namespace; no second part is a syntax error.

    - If the first part is a member in the unnamed namespace, then proceed onward.

    - If the first part is the member of a static collection, then the lack of an index is a 
      syntax error. If an index is present, bounds-check it and then proceed onward; we can 
      pretty much handle these the same as members.

 - If the member's type is a variable type (i.e. number, object, player, team, or timer), 
   then the next part, if present, must be either another variable or a property (either one 
   defined on that type, or one implied by a getter or setter opcode that uses that type as 
   a context argument).

In other words, the possible patterns are:

   member
   member.var          -- only if the member is a variable AND its type allows nested variables
   member.property     -- only if the member is a variable
   member.var.property -- biped only

And so all variable references, once resolved, can be conceived of as three units, the latter 
two of which are optional: the member (or typeinfo and index, to be converted to a "which" 
value); the nested variable; and the property. (Additionally, we treat constant integers as 
variable references, so I guess that is a fourth unit, and also an optional one.) We can 
represent this with a struct containing the following fields:

   Script::NamespaceMember* member
   OpcodeArgTypeinfo*       static_type
   int32_t                  static_index
   OpcodeArgTypeinfo*       variable_type
   int32_t                  variable_index
   Script::Property*        property

(Note that resolving property names will be somewhat tricky: if the property name doesn't 
match any of the properties defined on the type, then we must search the action function list 
for property getters/setters and see if the name matches what is listed there. What makes this 
tricky is that there is one opcode, Modify Grenade Count, that doesn't have a constant 
property name; instead, the property name is one of the opcode arguments. The solution is 
to simply look through the OpcodeToScriptMapping to identify *which* argument that is; then, 
instantiate just that argument, standalone, and call OpcodeArgValue::compile with the property 
name as the "argument." If it returns a success code, then we've identified our property as 
that specific getter or setter.)

If at any point we fail to identify a part as part of the process above (i.e. its name is 
unrecognized), then we need to check for an appropriate alias:

 - Non-relative aliases can only be used as the first part. (alias_name[any_index]) is a syntax 
   error.

 - Relative aliases can only be used if the prior part matches the type to which the alias is 
   relative. Relative aliases on different types can share the same name, i.e. these aliases 
   can all coexist:

      alias is_zombie = player.number[0]
      alias is_zombie = team.number[0]

   So the type of the previous part determines what relative aliases we pay attention to. As a 
   side-effect, relative aliases can't be used as the first part.

    - As with absolute aliases, indices on relative aliases (e.g. type.alias_name[index]) are 
      a syntax error.

    - If the first part fails to match any absolute aliases, then the error message we display 
      should vary depending on whether it matches any relative aliases (i.e. "you need to 
      supply a type" if so, or "unrecognized variable part" otherwise).

If an appropriate alias is found, then we should include its content i.e. the variable it 
refers to, and then continue the above process for resolving the variable reference.



== How do we resolve an alias definition? ==

We first try to resolve the alias's target as a variable reference. If this succeeds, then the 
alias is an absolute alias, and we retain the resolved variable data. Otherwise, we try to 
resolve the alias as one of the following:

   typename.property        -- aliased property
   typename.typename[index] -- aliased nested variable

We apply the appropriate constraints: the first typename must be a variable type; a property 
name must exist on the typename (or as a getter or setter); a second typename must be a 
variable type and the preceding typename must allow nested variables.